By not using any gas, bikes don't release harmful emissions that pollute the atmosphere, nor any carbon dioxide that contributes to climate change. Just moderate increases in bicycle use each year could save an estimated 6 to 14 million tons of CO2 (UCLA).
Vehicle pollutants harm our health and contain greenhouse gases that cause climate change. Burning gasoline and diesel fuel creates harmful byproducts like nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, benzene, and formaldehyde. In addition, vehicles emit carbon dioxide, the most common human-caused greenhouse gas. The good news is that you can reduce pollution from motor vehicles. Driving the cleanest vehicle you can afford and making everyday choices to drive less and drive smarter can make a big difference (Dept. Of Ecology of the State of Washington)
The biggest way motorcycles affect the environment is arguably due to emissions. Motorcycles emit carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM), hydrocarbons (HC), and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Carbon dioxide is a well-known greenhouse gas (citizensustainable).
Aviation affects the environment in many ways: people living near airports are exposed to noise from aircraft; streams, rivers, and wetlands may be exposed to pollutants discharged in storm water runoff from airports; and aircraft engines emit pollutants to the atmosphere (FAA).
Compared with driving alone, taking public transportation reduces CO2 emissions by 45%, decreasing pollutants in the atmosphere and improving air quality (UCLA).
According to EPA data, freight railroads account for just 0.5% of total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions and just 1.9% of transportation-related greenhouse gas emissions. More Fuel Efficient: Freight rail is ahead of other land modes of surface transportation when it comes to limiting its carbon footprint (The Association of American Railroads).
The most obvious form of pollution from trucking is carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas released by burning fuel. Small quantities of other pollutants, some of which are also greenhouse gasses,are released from the tailpipe as well (Teletrac Navman).
Individual boats and marinas usually release only small amounts of pollutants. Yet, when multiplied by thousands of boaters and marinas, they can cause distinct water quality problems in lakes, rivers, and coastal waters. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified the following potential environmental impacts from boating and marinas: high toxicity in the water; increased pollutant concentrations in aquatic organisms and sediments; increased erosion rates; increased nutrients, leading to an increase in algae and a decrease in oxygen (eutrophication); and high levels of pathogens. In addition, construction at marinas can lead to the physical destruction of sensitive ecosystems and bottom-dwelling aquatic communities (Environmental Protection Agency).
Bananas also account for a huge amount of water use and contamination. Since they require a constant level of moisture—neither too much nor too little—banana fields are interlaced with channels for irrigation and drainage, vastly increasing soil erosion (Food Is Power - https://foodispower.org/our-food-choices/bananas/).
The components of a typical laptop can contain mercury, lead, chromium and other heavy metals that provide power and preserve functionality (see Reference 6). If these toxins end up in a landfill, instead of a recycling center, they could contaminate groundwater, surface water or the soil around the landfill (SF Gate - https://homeguides.sfgate.com/laptops-affect-environment-78757.html).
The bulk of smartphone emissions come from new devices, with 1.4 billion phones expected to be manufactured and shipped in 2022. In fact, a brand-new smartphone generates an average of 85 kilograms in emissions in its first year of use...The key to reducing emissions [is] to extend the lifetime of individual phones (Forbes - https://www.forbes.com/sites/deloitte/2022/02/25/getting-smart-about-sustainability-smartphones-and-the-environment/?sh=643f312a6c46).